Welcome back!
Another common operation that is typically
performed by web services is
obviously, on the one hand,
they receive data from clients
that either web applications
or other microservices or live users
that want to manipulate some data.
And now that data needs
to be stored somewhere
and for that purpose we have
the so called ORM frameworks,
Object-Relational Mapping frameworks.
In Java, they commonly implement
JPA Java Persistence Architecture.
One of the, by far most popular
ones is called Hibernate.
However, in Quarkus, we use
slight modification of that.
Again, all in the,
pursue of the goal
of being able to identify
all the dependencies at compile
time and build a really tight,
small executable Java archive.
So the, the implementation is
Hibernate ORM with a complimentary
JPA layer call Panache.
Persistence is also
something that is covered in
much more detail in the AD183 course.
So if you want to refresh on it,
feel free to have a look at
that chapter in the AD183.
As far as Quarkus
applications are concerned,
we need to configure our project
with the required dependencies.
The Hibernate ORM dependency
is from the io.quarkus group
and it's called quarkus-hibernate-orm, logical enough.
Or what we can also do is io.quarkus
quarkus-hibernate-orm-panache
to get the panache extension,
in addition to the bare Hibernate ORM.
The underlying Hibernate ORM
dependency is transitive
dependency of the Panache one
so you do not have to include both.
If you just include the Panache one,
the Hibernate ORM dependency
will automatically be added.
However, now, whichever
database you intend to use,
you also must bundle your database
drivers with your Quarkus application.
So for the most commonly
used open source databases,
we have dependencies that are,
again, reengineered, refactor for Quarkus
already present in the io.quarkus group.
For Postgres, for example,
it's called quarkus-jdbc-postgresql.
As we said, to make it easier to
configure Quarkus applications,
all the properties,
including the persistence
related ones are actually placed into
the application.properties file.
Therefore, you do not need
a persistence.xml file.
It is completely optional.
What you would put into
application properties file though
is the quarkus.datasource.
db-kind attribute or property which
points to the type of the database
driver that you bundled with it.
Then you will add the
authentication related parameters,
such as username and password,
and the datasources, jdbc.url
which is vendor-specific.
So for PostgreSQL, that
would be jdbc:
postgresql://
hostname port and the
name of the database.
When you're implementing
persistence in your Java code,
you simply need to inject the
EntityManager and then use
it to invoke the persists and find
and update and similar methods.
So the work with the EntityManager
approach is in no way
different from the one that
you would typically use in
another Java application.
However, the drawback is that
EntityManager is not type safe.
So you will get some warnings when
trying to compile your application.
Of course, warnings have a purpose.
They pointed out that it's easy to make
mistakes in the persistence code
that could break the application.
So it's, why we mentioned
Panache in the first place.
With Panache, it's actually really
easy to create persistent objects.
Or you can use Panache in
2 different ways, 2 different
data access patterns.
The first one is a traditional approach
called the Repository Pattern.
It is the way that Java object access has been implemented traditionally
in an attempt to separate the logic
of retrieval and storage of the data
and it's mapping to entities.
To use the Repository Pattern,
you simply create a repository class that
extends from a base class
called PanacheRepository.
It is a typed class, thanks to genetics.
so it does provide us
the type safety we need. Make it
an @ApplicationScoped repository
because there's only the need to have
one throughout the application.
And then you simply inject that
repository wherever you need it,
wherever you need access to the data.
Now given an @Entity that looks like this
for example, an Expense,
we would in our service code
create an Expense, initialize it,
and then use the expenseRepository,
with the persist method, and
the parameter of expense.
So it basically is
a very similar approach to using EntityManager
except that it is type-safe.
This is something that
you would do if you want
your business logic to be
agnostic of your data sources.
However, there's much easier approach,
which is called the Active Record pattern.
The Active Record pattern actually
allows you to basically add,
enrich your entity model
with the persistence code.
So instead of implementing
a bear expense class with only the
attributes that it has to contain,
you extend the PanacheEntity
and this gives you immediate access
to methods such as persist,
search, and so on that are
in the entity class now.
So there's no need to inject
anything in your code.
You simply create a new
Expense, initialize it,
and then call persist on it,
and it will persist it,
Looking at the entity class again,
note that the properties are all marked
as public with the access restriction.
So this is because it helps us avoid
the reflection API during compilation
and of course, during compilation,
if you mark these fields as public,
Quarkus will change them and generate their
getters and setters automatically.
Of course, whatever your approach is,
you could always have
public getters and setters
and at these package protected
package visibility,
so package private visibility
of your class fields.
as we said, in the interest of making it
easier to perform native compilation.
When you're using the
Active Record button,
you can add custom methods to
the entity class to make them available
to all the instances.
Like for example, you can
create service method that returns
a list of expenses that were
created today simply by
adding a method that invokes
the inherited list method searches by
creation date and uses the
parameter of LocalDatetime.now
and that will return a list of expenses.
And if you make it a static method,
it's really easy to invoke it by
a static accessor like this
for example.
Whenever you're working with
a new instance of an object,
you can store it into the database
using the top persist method.
You can check whether it is
persisted, using isPersistent.
Invocation, you can get
all the instances of
a particular entity from
the database using listAll.
You can find them by IDs
and you can also use the optional
approach to find entities.
You can then also find all alive
instances of an entity using list
alive with the true parameter.
You can count them.
You can count them using a filter.
You can delete them using a filter,
delete all of them,
and delete by a key.
And you can also use JPA
queries in the update clause,
for example. Let's have
a look at how to use
Panache in the development of entities.
Join us in the next video.